# Homework 03 - Stacks and Queues - Instructions

For this assignment, you will be writing your own queue and stack libraries. Queue and stacks are used frequently in computer science, so it is important to understand various ways they are implemented and work. Additionally, you will essentially
be writing a library more than an independent program. This means unit testing becomes essential, and your
final deliverable will not have any output to standard out or read from standard in. 


## Queue: FIFO

👉🏽 **Task**: Implement the [myqueue.h] file, and corresponding unit test file, [test_queue.c]. 

1. Each function is required.
2. Do not change the function definitions! 
3. Do not change the structs, typedef, or defines
4. You should use a **Circular Buffer** to implement the queue. 
   * See below if you need information on a circular buffer. Essentially, you will be using the data array with a moving head pointer.
   * A circular queue/buffer is a more efficient  implementation than a simple array. Think why this would be true! 

Our testing program will be calling the struct directly, along with the functions for unit testing. You  may **add** additional functions if you need.  

As a reminder, FIFO stands for first in, first out. 

### test_queue.py
This is a sample unit test file. It can also act as your main driver of your library as you develop the code.  Pay special attention this block of code
```c
int (*unitTests[])(int) = {
    // unitTest1,
    // unitTest2,
    // unitTest3,
    // unitTest4,
    // unitTest5,
    NULL};
```
Notice that the unit tests are commented out. To run one, you will need to uncomment it. Additionally, you **need to add** additional unit tests to this file (at least 1, but there are multiple things we left out of this file you may want to look at). Here are some ideas:
* Fill a queue, empty the queue, and fill the queue again.
* Create an empty queue and attempt to add something to it.
* Make sure your queue does not overwrite any data
* And run all these tests with valgrind!

## Stack: LIFO

👉🏽 **Task**: Implement the [mystack.h] file, and corresponding unit test file, [test_stack.c]. 

1. Each function is required.
2. Do not change the function definitions! 
3. Do not change the structs, typedef, or defines
4. You need to use a LinkedList to implement the Stack


Our testing program will be calling the struct directly, along with the functions for unit testing. You  may **add** additional functions if you need.  

Same as test_queue.h, you will need to work with the test_stack.h file, and **need to add** additional unit tests (at least 1).

You will notice the functions are still called enqueue and dequeue even though it is a stack. That is common, as libraries often use common names. .add, and .remove are also common names. While it doesn't matter as much in **C**, this is a hint towards object oriented programming, and making structures interchangeable which Java's SDK is very good at doing since all Collections inherit the same interface. 


As a reminder stack is Last In, First out.  This is commonly called **Push** (enqueue) or **Pop** (dequeue).
![Stack]  
Image by Maxtremus, CC0, via Wikimedia Commons


## 📝 Grading Rubric


1. Learning (AG)
   * All files submitted
     * myqueue.h
     * mystack.h
     * test_queue.c
     * test_stack.c
     * README.md
   * Queue & Stack compiles
   * Queue & Stack created properly
   * Queue & Stack return empty or full structures
2. Approaching  (AG)
   * Queue & Stack can enqueue and dequeue across multiple tests
3. Meets  (AG)
   * Queue & Stack properly return size after multiple function calls
   * Queue & Stack don't have any memory leaks
4. Exceeds  (MG)
   * Completed [README.md]
     * Including answering Further Thinking questions with at least 2-3 paragraphs.
   * Unit tests added to test_queue and test_stack
   * Code fully documented, including header on each file
   * Circular Queue used for queue
   * LinkedList used for Stack


AG - Auto-graded  
MG - Manually graded

TAs will look at manually graded portions *after* you have met full points on the autograded (you may resubmit). You may also resubmit MG components, but there will be a time delay for TAs to grade (usually a week).

### Submission
You will submit to gradescope via it pulling from your Github repository generated by Github classroom. As a reminder,
gradescope doesn't auto pull. If you make an update, and already submitted to gradescope you will need to go into gradescope and resubmit. 


### Instruction Home
Please note, if you are viewing these instructions in your repository copy, it is possible for your local copy to be out of sync with the official instructions. 

Double check instructions by going to: [HW 3 - Instructions]


## 📚 Resources

* [Data Structure Visualizations](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html)
* [Queue High Level Description](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queue_(abstract_data_type))
* [Stack High Level Description](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type))
* [Example Single File C Libraries](https://github.com/nothings/single_file_libs)
* [Are header only libraries more efficient?](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/305618/are-header-only-libraries-more-efficient)
* [Header Files from GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/cpp/Header-Files.html)
* [Circular Buffer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_buffer)

<!-- link definitions -->

[Stack]: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b4/Lifo_stack.png
[myqueue.h]: ../myqueue.h
[test_queue.c]: ../test_queue.c
[mystack.h]: ../mystack.h
[test_stack.c]: ../test_stack.c
[README.md]: ../README.md
[HW 3 - Instructions]: https://github.com/Spring23-CS5008-BOS-Lionelle/hw03-stacks-queues/tree/main/instructions